[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: So in addition to being
able to complete an observable with take,
our very,
very powerful function is takeUntil.
You can complete an observable
when another observable fires.
Does that make sense?
So I can say, listen to all the mouse
moves until the next mouse up.
So now, that's how I get away from
writing all this event handler,
add event listener,
remove event listener code.
I don't sort of say add event
listener to mouse move,
but then add event listener to mouse up.
And then when the mouse up happens, unhook
the event listener from mouse up, and
unhook the event listener from mouse move.
That's all very confusing.
takeUntil does all of that
stuff declaratively for us.
So let's take a look at this.
So let's go back to our NASDAQ example,
one of the problems with the NASDAQ
example that we ran earlier is
that it will go on forever.
[LAUGH] And it will eventually
actually use up memory potentially,
unless the browser's being really good
about clearing that console buffer.
It's just gonna keep writing
to the console, right,
and well, maybe we don't want that.
Maybe we would like to just sort of see
the stream for a while, and then decide,
okay, I don't wanna see
that stream anymore.
Right, I just wanna stop it, right, you
could certainly see that happening if I
open a form, for example, in the UI,
and I wanna see stock streams.
But then what happens
when I close that form?
Obviously, I wanna stop listening
to that stock stream, and
maybe I've got a web socket under
the hood that I also wanna close, right?
It's these types of things
that I want you have to
think about when you're building UIs.
You have to clean up after yourself
when a user leaves a form or
moves to another page, and
that type of thing, right?
Now I'm talking specifically about
single page web applications,
which a lot of us are building nowadays,
right?
In the old days of the web,
it was really easy,
you didn't have to really worry
about cleaning up after yourself,
because as soon as somebody
went to a different page, boom,
all your JavaScript was gone,
and it's reloaded.
Today we have a much more
complicated model, right,
those of us who are building
angular apps or react apps.
The notion of a page is really
actually just very often another div
popped up on screen.
So you have a single page, and
then you just keep loading forms.
Well, that creates a lot of complexity,
cuz now,
you really gotta make sure
to clean up after yourself.
Let's say I open up a form, and then I
start streaming in stock prices, right?
Well, as soon as somebody hits X,
I better close that web socket, right?
So that I'm not continuing
to access the NASDAQ,
long after that person is
actually looking at that form.
So, this is the type of thing, this is
why it's become so complicated, and
asynchronous programming has
become such an important thing for
developers to worry about.
As we build single page web
apps where the page lives for
a very long time, we wanna make sure not
to leak memory because after a while,
the applications slow down and
eventually even crash the browser.
So takeUntil is a really, really key
tool to solve this problem, right?
Imagine saying well, listen for form open,
right, that's a stream too, right?
When somebody clicks a button to open
a form, I'm gonna listen for a form open,
and then I'm going to begin listening to
stock prices until the form is closed.
That's a very common form that
you're gonna see again and again.
It's not so different than listen for
mouse down,
then I'm gonna be listening for
mouse moves until the mouse up.
You're gonna see a lot of that.
Listen for the start condition,
map it into some street listening
to something else, right?
Map it into some other observable
until the stop condition.
That make sense?
So we're gonna start doing that map,
that should be incredibly
common in user interfaces.
So here,
I'm gonna use the exact same approach,
except instead of listening to
these stock prices forever,
I'm gonna listen until, so
we're gonna pass in a stop button.
So I wanna actually be able to listen for
the click for
the stop button, it's right down here.
So there's a stop button
along with a run button, so
when I click the stop button, I want
the to stop printing out stock prices.
So first thing I have to
do is I need to convert
the stop button into an observable.
>> Jafar Husain: So
that's always the first step.
Whenever you run across an asynchronous
API that doesn't emit an observable,
the first thing you do,
convert it to emit an observable.
Adapt it to the observable interface.
Cuz now we can use all those cool
functions like map and filter and so
on and so forth, right?
So now I just have to
takeUntil(stopButtonClicks).
>> Jafar Husain: So
now if I run this, we see our stocks.
And you can think of this as the user
going along and maybe closing a form,
right?
And they hit stop, that could just as
easily be an X button on a form, and
now we're not getting stock tips anymore.
And under the hood, remember,
when you tell an observable that you're
not interested in listening
to the result anymore,
that gives the observable to do
the opportunity to clean up after itself.
So in this case, if I were really
listening to the NASDAQ under the hood
here, I could close that web socket and
clean up after myself.
And as soon as that
observable says on completed,
I'm not sending you any data anymore.
Remember, the consumer here doesn't say,
I'm not interested in the result anymore.
What we did is declaratively force
the observable into simply saying I'm done
when this button clicks.
And that way, we can be 100% sure
that it's not holding onto our
subscription anymore, right?
Why would it hold on to a call back
when it's never gonna call again?
So this is how we make sure that when
we build user interfaces with all these
events that we're working up to,
we never run out of memory,
cuz we're always making sure
to clean up after ourselves.
Code like this is much easier to write
than adding an event listener and
removing an event listener because one
thing I wanna call your attention to,
remember I talked about changing things,
right?
Adding an event listener and removing
an event listener is a classic example of
changing an object you don't own, right?
If there's a list somewhere that you
didn't create of listeners, and now you're
gonna push something into it, and then
later you're gonna pull it out, right?
That is happening under the hood, right?
That's what's going on under the hood, but
it's not something your
code is doing directly.
From the perspective of this, all your
code is doing is it's taking a bunch of
observables, combining them,
and creating a new observable.
That's all that's happening on
this top level of code here.
And I wanna call your attention to
something that we talked about yesterday,
but it's been a while since
we talked about, all right.
If I comment this out and then I run,
we won't see any stock
prices printed on screen.
An observable doesn't do anything
until you begin listening to it.
All we've done is create
a bunch of objects,
which hold onto a bunch of objects,
which hold on to a bunch of objects,
hasn't done a thing.
Think of an observable.
It's a little bit like an event because
it pushes you information over time, but
it's also a little bit like a function,
in the sense that nothing
happens until you call it.
Really, observable only has one function,
which is forEach.
All the other functions are actually
implemented in terms of forEach, map,
filter, reduce, and so on and so forth.
They all use forEach under the hood.
So that's really all an observable is,
it's one object with a function
just waiting to be called.
So that's the way to think about it.
It's a little bit hard to get
your head around an observable,
because it's a little bit like an event,
and it's a little bit like a function.
Got a question?
>> Off Camera 1: Question from chatroom,
the priceNASDAQ, is that an observable?
>> Jafar Husain: Yes, so sorry if I
didn't really hammer that point home,
priceNASDAQ, I was sort of tricking you
guys into thinking it was an array,
just like every other example thus far.
But I pass it an observable,
and the point of doing that
was to hammer home the equivalence of the
API between the array and the observable.
Everything you learned yesterday,
painstakingly learned,
can now be applied to asynchronous data
sources, not just arrays in memory.